Targeted Domain Refinement (TDR) Framework for Humanoid Robotics

Overview
The Targeted Domain Refinement (TDR) framework, introduced in the paper "Addressing Domain Mismatch in Humanoid Robotics Through Targeted Domain Refinement Framework", tackles the domain mismatch problem in sim-to-real transfer for humanoid robots. Unlike Adaptive Domain Randomization (ADR), which struggles with static randomization and limited generalization, TDR dynamically adapts policies using a hierarchical learning structure inspired by cognitive science (ACT-R and CLARION theories). Implemented in Python 3.13 IDLE with a custom GPT-based simulator, TDR was tested on synthetic mechanical and environmental datasets, outperforming ADR in sample efficiency, adaptation speed, robustness, policy stability, and domain gap reduction.
Key Features

Sensory Perception System: Processes multi-modal environmental data with sparse attention and fusion pyramid.
Dynamic Causal Reasoner: Builds causal models for hierarchical decision-making and predictive error correction.
Hierarchical Decision Former: Refines decisions from high-level goals to specific actions.
Cross-Domain Memory Bank: Stores and generalizes scene data for robust adaptation.
Evaluation Metrics: Sample Efficiency, Adaptation Speed, Robustness, Policy Stability, Domain Gap.

Installation
git clone https://github.com/username/tdr-humanoid-robotics.git
cd tdr-humanoid-robotics
pip install -r requirements.txt

Usage

Follow setup instructions in docs/installation.md.
Run experiments:python scripts/run_tdr.py --datasets mechanical environmental --control adr --metrics efficiency speed robustness stability gap


View results in outputs/results/.

Results
TDR achieves superior performance over ADR:

Mechanical Data: Sample Efficiency (0.745 vs. 0.568), Robustness (0.946 vs. 0.599), Policy Stability (0.717 vs. 0.485).
Environmental Data: Sample Efficiency (0.607 vs. 0.479), Robustness (0.821 vs. 0.543), Policy Stability (0.673 vs. 0.531).

Contributing
See CONTRIBUTING.md for contribution guidelines.
License
Licensed under the MIT License. See LICENSE for details.
Citation
@article{wang2025tdr,
  title={Addressing Domain Mismatch in Humanoid Robotics Through Targeted Domain Refinement Framework},
  author={Wang, Libo},
  journal={arXiv preprint},
  year={2025}
}
